All right, so we'll do a quick recap,
we've covered roadmaps,
creating team charter,
how to measure impact.
Next, like I mentioned, yet at some point
in time you will be hiring for your team.
Your team is really, really important,
you want to have the right
people on your team.
And I can't stress this enough,
I think that managers need to be
heavily involved in this process.
I've been at companies where it's
maybe a little more like recruiting
does everything.
You give input on it, but
they're doing a lot of that, that's fine,
I think, but you still wanna try and
be as involved as much.
I think it's a partnership between
a manager and recruiting and the team,
right?
The team definitely knows what they
need or who are the right people.
So the way I think about hiring is like,
what are the first steps?
This is before I've even
written a job description.
I wanna start to think about what
are the skills that the team needs.
So I wanna outline the required
skills that I think are for the role,
outline what experience is required.
Maybe it's no experience, maybe it's
a new college grad and that's okay for
this particular role,
maybe I need someone very senior.
It's important to think about and
just really understand how you're setting
someone up for success and
what they're bringing for the team.
And there again, include your team, ask
them what skills would they like to see.
Maybe it's like you're doing something
with GraphQL on the team, and
everyone's doing it and kind of knows it,
but it's fairly new to the team,
no one is the expert in it.
And they're like, you know what would be
really beneficial to up-level our team?
Is having someone who has a lot
of expertise there, that's cool,
like that's something good
to hear from your team.
You may not get that on the higher, or
maybe it's not a prioritized thing, but
knowing that is very, very helpful.
And then, maybe it's similar
to the Graph QL comment,
what's additive to your team, I think it's
really important to take a step back,
look at your team,
what would be added to your time?
And I don't mean necessarily on
the technical side, it could be,
what's the diversity and
make up of your team?
What are some lived experiences
that might help you?
When I think about working at Netflix
on the Netflix sign-up flows,
we were building a lot of
experiences worldwide.
We're dealing with
different payment methods,
there's things that I have no idea.
I haven't experienced what it's
like to live in India, but
someone on my team has, and they can
definitely provide just things that they
didn't even know were helpful at the time.
And so I think about those types of
things too, is like, it's not necessarily
a required skill, but it is something
that might be a very nice to have, and so
I think these are important
things to think about.
The team dynamics,
how's the person gonna fit in the team?
What's the team culture?
What's maybe missing that could
maybe up level you in certain areas?
Maybe it's communication skills,
maybe it's really good
written documentation skills.
I've definitely had that happen
where I've had an engineer who's so
passionate about writing documentation and
it up-leveled the rest of the team,
and so that's additive, that's awesome.
Maybe it's leadership skills,
I think this is an awesome one.
Not everyone on the team is
gonna want to lead a project or
mentor certain things, it's fine.
There's make-ups of people, what they
wanna do, and you lean on them for
the skills that they want.
But I absolutely believe as a manager,
you are very successful when
you have leaders on the team.
And it doesn't have to be
an official title, but
it's people that are doing certain things
that you can delegate or lean on them, and
it's growth opportunities for
them as well.
Maybe before I dive into
the job description,
what are some things that you
think would be helpful or
additive when you're thinking
about adding someone to your team?
>> I think I'm just a girl that lived
experiences, since I do work in
a very niche science field, I've hired
people in the past who went to school for
things like pre-med and
then did coding boot camps.
And they have that science background, and
that knowledge is something that you can't
just replicate, and so that's
something that's been really valuable.
>> Yeah, I even like that of
the educational side too,
because I'm not a believer that as
a software engineer you need a CS degree.
It definitely helps in many ways,
but I've seen people be so
successful from self-taught
to from a boot camp.
And maybe that's bringing different
perspectives for your team too,
my productivity engineering
team creates a lot of tools.
Maybe it's like just having a different
perspective on how a tool is being
ingested by someone coming
out of a boot camp, so
I love that one, that's a great call out.
>> Like remote aspects come into
play of time zones or countries or-
>> Yes, how did I miss that one?
Thank you, yes, remote,
absolutely a factor.
That's something that for me,
I've been at Netflix for a while now,
I think it's over eight years, and
for a long time we're not remote.
And so this is absolutely,
I take into a lot of thought into this,
now is most of my team is now remote.
And time zones are a factor,
even sometimes I already have
someone in that time zone.
Is that gonna be a good area where maybe
they're the only one on the east coast, so
it would be nice to have more
people on that same timezone,
that's a great call out.
Also someone with experience
working heavily remote,
or someone that having
experience working open source.
There's a lot of these things that
can just make your team better and
they will uplevel and bring ideas that
you may just not have thought of, so
good getting back to
that lived experience.
Great call out on the remote,
that is something that we need
to think a lot more about.
Obviously there's been companies for
many years that are heavily remote,
but being have hybrid or
remote, that's a newer thing for
companies and so it is really
helpful to have that skill set.
Yeah.
>> You might be covering this later,
I'm not sure, but
I think looking at budgeting constraints,
comp guidelines and market conditions
is also a factor here where
maybe you can't hire on the upper
end of comp in the market.
But the skills you're expecting
are outside of that range, so
you need to adjust to say,
okay, this is probably gonna be
very difficult to find someone in
this range with the skill set and
setting expectations appropriately around
like, how soon do we need to hire?
How long do we have to find that person?
Stuff like that.
>> Absolutely,
budget plays heavily into this,
these are all factors that can change how
you think about it, but also maybe to have
that hard conversation with a leader
of like, do we need this skill set?
The budget that I've been provided
doesn't help me, I gotta go higher, so
you can have that conversation and
get ahead of that.
Not waiting till the like offer stage and
going like I have this great candidate.
No, you can't hire them Ryan,
or you can't pay them that,
you're gonna have to lowball them,
that is really helpful to think about.
Mark.
>> Meg says, we look for
complementary skills,
if there's five primary skills needed for
my team, I don't just look for
generalists in all five skills,
or all specialists.
Some specialists and some generalists.
>> Right, that's a great call out, maybe
you have someone who's a CSS expert or
an accessibility expert, and
that up levels the team, right?
Definitely you learn from them,
and that not honestly that
helps your culture too, right?
We all wanna learn from one another.
Mark.
>> The way that I always describe it
personally is, in the early stages of
the startup ecosystem,
it's like you're looking for generalists.
But also you kind of have to play on
who is interested in your project,
your product and that kind of thing,
you can't really say I want
this very specific skill.
It reminds me of professional sports where
you have the teams that have huge budgets,
so they can be like,
I want this person, at this height and
this weight and this position exactly.
And they can just hire for
the very specific and
fit the team together with
a very specific set of skills.
Whereas somebody who has less
budget has to be more scrappy and
kind of focus on, okay,
I'm seeing this person's skills aptitude,
recognizing that and
doing more with less kind of thing.
And seeing like, hiring for
aptitude more than the specific skillset,
because you're not gonna be able
to hire exactly the team makeup
that you want in the early days,
especially.
>> I think even that larger, it's hard to
even find that exact specific of height,
and obviously we're not hiring for
height and
stuff like that in software engineering.
But yeah, I love that point,
and often even sports teams,
they have a budget and
they can blow it all on one player,
that doesn't make it that they're
gonna win all the games, maybe.
But they have to think tactically
about how they spend that money and
what's the makeup of the team,
it's not just one single hire,
you have to think more broadly,
so I love that.
>> Some coaches really thrive in that kind
of very specific, setting up the team
in a more specific way, and some
coaches thrive in that aptitude space.
>> I'm a big fan of hiring for aptitude,
I think I tend to lean more towards that.
Obviously there's this core set
of skills that you need, but
someone who has a lot of aptitude,
can learn quickly and
they're hungry to learn,
those things are awesome.
And so, yeah, I'm really glad
that Mark called that one out.
>> A lot of things can be taught,
domain knowledge and
certain skills can be taught.
However, culture and attitude and
communication skills,
sometimes it's harder to
teach some of those things.
>> Yeah, absolutely, let's use
Mark's analogy on the sports team,
it's like you have that superstar,
some of them are really nice,
some of them are jerks, right?
Do you want that on your team?
Right?
But that can really actually,
even if you have the top superstar,
rock star engineer, whatever all the gross
terms that get thrown out there.
It doesn't matter if the rest
of the team can't perform and
work as a team or unit, that's not great.
Yeah.
>> That's why hearing is so
tricky on the general versus specialists,
it's like you don't want a team involves
a project manager or stuff like that.
Cuz you already uncovered at that point,
and you're like, I love my project
manager, and it's cool, but you need
to actually do some poll requests.
But you also don't want a team
of nobodies project managing,
because then that's on you,
and that's wasting time.
So hiring is so tricky cuz you really
have to understand your team and
then what the role is and
what's coming in the business.
And I'm with you on the hiring for
aptitude, you want someone who's
adaptable, not someone who's like,
yeah, they can do the job today.
I see so many companies are like, yeah,
react specialist versus how do you know
what technology you're
gonna be using next year.
And someone's like, I only do react, which
I've seen plenty of times people are like,
I only do this, and that's not helpful for
me as we grown business with him.
>> Adaptability, yeah, huge.
Also, I like, Gem,
what you were starting to get at too, and
I didn't really put this in here,
is thinking about where are we next year,
where are we two years from now.
And it's hard, it's really hard as
a leader to know all those details, but
thinking about those things in the makeup
of your team is absolutely something you
wanna try and do.
You can get it wrong, but
I think thinking about today I absolutely
need someone who knows react and
we're starving for that maybe, but
also are you gonna need that later?
Is that still gonna pan out?
You wanna think about those things,
it might still be I need that hire today.
But it's just really taking that
reflection time, not just like,
like I said,
it's a partnership with recruiting.
Is you can give them a list of skill sets
and they're gonna go find you people.
Absolutely, but if you can start
to have conversations with them,
even talking about, well,
this would be additive to my team.
Maybe it is like I don't wanna
pick too much on even gender,
but software engineering has
typically oriented heavier
on male versus a female engineer.
And maybe you want more of those different
perspectives, and so maybe you spend more
time looking and sourcing for candidates
that you don't have on your team.